- [Instructor] One of the coolest changes
to the core baseline itself, in my opinion,
is actually the move to a non-blocking IO.
And we're going to talk a little bit about those IO changes.
First of all, they've given us a new method
on the resource abstraction.
If you haven't used resource before in your Spring code,
I highly encourage you to check it out.
As an IO abstraction it is a fantastic tool
that allows you to pull resources off the file system
or class path extremely easy.
I use resource all the time.
One of the things that I always ran into a problem
with though was, is the resource itself a file?
This new isFile method gives us a defensive strategy
in dealing with resources.
It allows us to determine if the resource itself
is a file in the file system.
When you call getFile on a resource that isn't a file
you would get an IO exception in the past.
So this isFile method gives us a great way
to do a defensive check without a try catch block.
They've also added a new readable channel
and this is also an accessor on the resource itself.
Now this returns nio or a non-blocking readable channel.
And this is a very dramatic shift
from the file input file output streams
that we've traditionally used in Java,
that by the way were blocking.
So this really is a shift from non-blocking to blocking APIs
which if you've followed anything with Project Reactor
and how Spring is integrated with that,
it should really be no surprise to see a shift
in moving from blocking APIs to non-blocking.
And we're seeing the same thing
with the way that this readable channel operates.
And indeed that same change is existing across
the entire file system.
General file system access,
much of it behind the scenes,
has been a complete shift to nio, or non-blocking.
And this is really a dramatic change.
One that you might not deal with on a regular basis,
but if you're dealing with the operation site
of a Java program,
especially one that maybe is doing ETL
or a lot of file system access,
this is kind of a big deal,
especially if you're running Reactive APIs.
So this is a very exciting change,
that's kind of small in the big picture scheme of things,
but really gets me excited,
because I tend to do a lot of things with file manipulation,
as I'm building out infrastructures.